As you saw earlier
in this lesson,
the ability of LLMs to carry out
arithmetic and other mathematical
operations is limited.
While you can try using chain of
thought prompting
to overcome this,
it will only get you so far.
Even if the model correctly
reasons through a problem,
it may still get the individual
math operations wrong,
especially with larger numbers
or complex operations.
Here's the example
you saw earlier where
the LLM tries to act like
a calculator but gets
the answer wrong.
Remember, the model isn't
actually doing any
real math here.
It is simply trying to predict
the most probable tokens
that complete the prompt.
The model getting
math wrong can have
many negative consequences
depending on your use case,
like charging customers
the wrong total
or getting the measurements
for a recipe incorrect.
You can overcome this limitation
by allowing your model to
interact with
external applications
that are good at math,
like a Python interpreter.
One interesting framework
for augmenting LLMs
in this way is called
program-aided language models,
or PAL for short.
This work first presented
by Luyu Gao and
collaborators at Carnegie
Mellon University in 2022,
pairs an LLM with
an external code interpreter
to carry out calculations.
The method makes use of
chain of thought prompting
to generate executable
Python scripts.
The scripts that
the model generates
are passed to an
interpreter to execute.
The image on the right
here is taken from
the paper and show some example
prompts and completions.
You'll walk through
an example of
these in a second so don't
worry about reading all of
the details here for now.
The strategy behind PAL is
to have the LLM generate
completions where
reasoning steps
are accompanied
by computer code.
This code is then passed
to an interpreter to carry
out the calculations necessary
to solve the problem.
You specify the output format
for the model by including
examples for one or few short
inference in the prompt.
Let's take a closer look at how
these example prompts
are structured.
You'll continue to work
with the story of Roger
buying tennis balls as
the one-shot example.
The setup here should
now look familiar.
This is a chain of
thought example.
You can see the reasoning
steps written out
in words on the lines
highlighted in blue.
What differs from the
prompts you saw before is
the inclusion of lines of
Python code shown in pink.
These lines translate
any reasoning steps
that involve
calculations into code.
Variables are declared based on
the text in each reasoning step.
Their values are assigned
either directly,
as in the first
line of code here,
or as calculations using
numbers present in
the reasoning text as you see
in the second Python line.
The model can also work with
variables it creates
in other steps,
as you see in the third line.
Note that the text of
each reasoning step
begins with a pound sign,
so that the line
can be skipped as
a comment by the
Python interpreter.
The prompt here ends with the
new problem to be solved.
In this case, the
objective is to
determine how many loaves
of bread a bakery has
left after a day of sales and
after some loaves are
returned from a
grocery store partner.
On the right, you can see
the completion
generated by the LLM.
Again, the chain of thought
reasoning steps are shown
in blue and the Python
code is shown in pink.
As you can see,
the model creates
a number of variables to
track the loaves baked,
the loaves sold in
each part of the day,
and the loaves returned
by the grocery store.
The answer is then
calculated by carrying
out arithmetic operations
on these variables.
The model correctly identifies
whether terms should be
added or subtracted to
reach the correct total.
Now that you know how to
structure examples
that will tell
the LLM to write
Python scripts based on
its reasoning steps,
let's go over how the
PAL framework enables
an LLM to interact with
an external interpreter.
To prepare for
inference with PAL,
you'll format your prompt to
contain one or more examples.
Each example should contain
a question followed by
reasoning steps in lines of
Python code that
solve the problem.
Next, you will append
the new question that
you'd like to answer to
the prompt template.
Your resulting PAL
formatted prompt now
contains both the example
and the problem to solve.
Next, you'll pass this
combined prompt to your LLM,
which then generates a completion
that is in the form of
a Python script
having learned how to
format the output based on
the example in the prompt.
You can now hand off the script
to a Python interpreter,
which you'll use to run the
code and generate an answer.
For the bakery example script
you saw on the previous slide,
the answer is 74.
You'll now append the text
containing the answer,
which you know is
accurate because
the calculation
was carried out in
Python to the PAL formatted
prompt you started with.
By this point you have
a prompt that includes
the correct answer in context.
Now when you pass the
updated prompt to the LLM,
it generates a completion that
contains the correct answer.
Given the relatively simple math
in the bakery bread problem,
it's likely that the model
may have gotten the answer
correct just with chain
of thought prompting.
But for more complex math,
including arithmetic
with large numbers,
trigonometry or calculus,
PAL is a powerful technique
that allows you to ensure that
any calculations done by
your application are
accurate and reliable.
You might be wondering how to
automate this
process so that you
don't have to pass information
back and forth between the LLM,
and the interpreter by hand.
This is where the orchestrator
that you saw earlier comes in.
The orchestrator shown here as
the yellow box is
a technical component
that can manage the flow
of information and
the initiation of
calls to external data
sources or applications.
It can also decide what
actions to take based
on the information contained
in the output of the LLM.
Remember, the LLM is your
application's reasoning engine.
Ultimately, it
creates the plan that
the orchestrator will
interpret and execute.
In PAL there's only one
action to be carried out,
the execution of Python code.
The LLM doesn't really have
to decide to run the code,
it just has to write
the script which
the orchestrator then passes to
the external interpreter to run.
However, most real-world
applications are likely
to be more complicated than
the simple PAL architecture.
Your use case may require
interactions with several
external data sources.
As you saw in the
shop bought example,
you may need to manage
multiple decision points,
validation actions, and calls
to external applications.
How can you use the LLM to
power a more complex
application?
Let's explore one strategy
in the next video.